[RFC] Implement policy agent (#13)
veraison/services: policy/README.opa.md

## Usage

To use this backend, specify `"opa"` as the `policy.backend` in the config:

```golang
import "github.com/veraison/services/config"

cfg := config.Config{
    "policy.backend": "opa",
}

agent, err := CreateAgent(cfg)
```

This is also the default backend, so if no other backend is specified, `opa`
will be used.

## Writing Policies

Please see the OPA [official
documentation](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/) for information on
how to write Rego policies. This section describes what is necessary to
implement a valid Veraison policy, and assumes a general familiarity with Rego.

### Package declaration

Your policy should specify `policy` as the package.

```rego
package policy
```

### Evaluation Data

Data to be evaluated is defined as the following variables in the `policy`
package:

`evidence` contains the JSON representation of `proto.Evidence.Evidence`
structure. This is the scheme-specific values extracted from the attestation
token.

`endorsements` is an array of endorsement JSON objects. Their structure is
scheme-specific.

`result` is a JSON object representing `proto.AttestationResult` that was
generated by the scheme.

> `format` is the name of `prot.AttestationFormat` associated with the scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`format` is the name of `proto.AttestationFormat` associated with the scheme.
```

### Rules

You can update the attestation result by defining one or more of the following
rules:

- `status`
- `hw_authenticity`
- `sw_integrity`
- `sw_up_to_dateness`
- `config_integrity`
- `runtime_integrity`
- `certification_status`

The first overwrites the overall attestation result status. The subsequent rules
overwrite the corresponding entries in the trust vector.

The rules must be defined such that they produce the string `"SUCCESS"` if the

> conditions have been met, an d the string `"FAILURE"` otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
conditions have been met, and the string `"FAILURE"` otherwise.
```

For example:

```rego
sw_itegrity = "SUCCESS" {
    # note: This is an example. The evidence entries do not correspond to any
    #       actual scheme.
    evidence["application-hash"] == "h0KPxSKAPTEGXnvOPPA/5HUJZjHl4Hu9eg/eYMTPJcc="
    evidence["firmware-hash"] == "h0KPxSKAPTEGXnvOPPA/5HUJZjHl4Hu9eg/eYMTPJcc="
    semver_cmp(evidence["firmware-version"], "1.2.0") >= 0
} else = "FAILURE"
```

#### Dealing With Multiple Attestation Schemes

If you expect your policy to be applied to inputs from multiple attestation
schemes, you differentiate between them using the `format` variable defined by
the `policy` package. For example you can define rules for each scheme, and
then alias the generic rules above to one of them based on the value of the
`format` variable. For example:

```rego
sw_up_to_dateness = psa_sw_up_to_dateness { format == "PSA_IOT" }
             else = enacttrust_sw_up_to_dateness { format == "TPM_ENACTTRUST" }

psa_sw_up_to_dateness = "SUCCESS" {
    # ...
} else = "FAILURE"

enacttrust_sw_up_to_dateness = "SUCCESS" {
    # ...
} else = "FAILURE"
```

### Example Policy

This is a example of a policy that sets the `SoftwareUpToDateness` value in the

> trust vector for `PSA_OIT` and `TPM_ENACTTRUST` schemes (neither scheme has

Reviewer 2: typo: PSA_IOT

built-in definition for software up-to-dateness, an so that entry is undefined
in the results generated by the schemes).

```rego
package policy

> # Use the psa_sw_up_to_dateness rules iff the attestaion format is PSA_IOT, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the psa_sw_up_to_dateness rules if the attestaion format is PSA_IOT, and
```

> # Use the psa_sw_up_to_dateness rules iff the attestaion format is PSA_IOT, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the psa_sw_up_to_dateness rules iff the attestation format is PSA_IOT, and
```

# to enacttrust_sw_up_to_dateness iff the format is TPM_ENACTTRUST, otherwise,
# sw_up_to_dateness will remain undefined.
sw_up_to_dateness = psa_sw_up_to_dateness { format == "PSA_IOT" }
             else = enacttrust_sw_up_to_dateness { format == "TPM_ENACTTRUST" }

> # This sets sw-up-to-dateness trust verctor value to success iff BL version is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This sets sw-up-to-dateness trust vector value to success iff BL version is
```
